# R-Books

Personal list of R books, written with the [bookdown pkg](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown)

  
- [bookdown](https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/) bookdown: Authoring Books and Technical Documents with R Markdown.
This short book introduces an R package, bookdown, to change your workflow of writing books. It should be technically easy to write a book, visually pleasant to view the book, fun to interact with the book, convenient to navigate through the book, straightforward for readers to contribute or leave feedback to the book author(s), and more importantly, authors should not always be distracted by typesetting details.

- [Advanced R](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/) This is the website for work-in-progress 2nd edition of “Advanced R”, a book in Chapman & Hall’s R Series. The book is designed primarily for R users who want to improve their programming skills and understanding of the language. It should also be useful for programmers coming to R from other languages, as it explains some of R’s quirks and shows how some parts that seem horrible do have a positive side.

- [R for Data Science](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/) This is the website for “R for Data Science”. This book will teach you how to do data science with R: You’ll learn how to get your data into R, get it into the most useful structure, transform it, visualise it and model it. In this book, you will find a practicum of skills for data science. Just as a chemist learns how to clean test tubes and stock a lab, you’ll learn how to clean data and draw plots—and many other things besides. These are the skills that allow data science to happen, and here you will find the best practices for doing each of these things with R. You’ll learn how to use the grammar of graphics, literate programming, and reproducible research to save time. You’ll also learn how to manage cognitive resources to facilitate discoveries when wrangling, visualising, and exploring data.

- [Functional programming and unit testing for data munging with R](https://b-rodrigues.github.io/fput/) This book serves to show how functional programming and unit testing can be useful for the task of data munging. This book is not an in-depth guide to functional programming, nor unit testing with R. If you want to have an in-depth understanding of the concepts presented in these books, I can’t but recommend Wickham (2014a), Wickham (2015) and Wickham and Grolemund (2016) enough. Here, I will only briefly present functional programming, unit testing and building your own R packages. Just enough to get you (hopefully) interested and going.

- [plotly for R](https://plotly-book.cpsievert.me/) This website explains and partially documents the R package plotly, a high-level interface to the open source JavaScript graphing library plotly.js (which powers plot.ly). The R package already has numerous examples and documentation on https://plot.ly/r and https://plot.ly/ggplot2, but this website provides more of a cohesive narrative to help explain fundamental concepts and recent developments. By reading from start to finish, readers new to R and plotly should be able to get up and running fairly quickly. That being said, advanced R and plotly users should still find the majority of this material useful and informative. I highly recommend copying/pasting examples into your R console, and modifying them as you read along, to aid the learning process.

- [R Markdown: The Definitive Guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/) The document format “R Markdown” was first introduced in the knitr package (Xie 2015, 2018d) in early 2012. The idea was to embed code chunks (of R or other languages) in Markdown documents. In fact, knitr supported several authoring languages from the beginning in addition to Markdown, including LaTeX, HTML, AsciiDoc, reStructuredText, and Textile. Looking back over the five years, it seems to be fair to say that Markdown has become the most popular document format, which is what we expected. The simplicity of Markdown clearly stands out among these document formats.

- [Exploratory Data Analysis with R](https://bookdown.org/rdpeng/exdata/) This book covers the essential exploratory techniques for summarizing data with R. These techniques are typically applied before formal modeling commences and can help inform the development of more complex statistical models. Exploratory techniques are also important for eliminating or sharpening potential hypotheses about the world that can be addressed by the data you have. We will cover in detail the plotting systems in R as well as some of the basic principles of constructing informative data graphics. We will also cover some of the common multivariate statistical techniques used to visualize high-dimensional data.

- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/) The book is meant as a guide to making visualizations that accurately reflect the data, tell a story, and look professional. It has grown out of my experience of working with students and postdocs in my laboratory on thousands of data visualizations. Over the years, I have noticed that the same issues arise over and over. I have attempted to collect my accumulated knowledge from these interactions in the form of this book. The book’s source code is hosted on GitHub, at https://github.com/clauswilke/dataviz.

- [The tidyverse style guide](http://style.tidyverse.org/index.html) Good coding style is like correct punctuation: you can manage without it, butitsuremakesthingseasiertoread. This site describes the style used throughout the tidyverse. It was originally derived from Google’s R style guide, but has evolved and expanded considerably over the years.
